# Reactivity

As in most reactive UI libraries, there are objects which can be changed and you have the ability to connect to them, or update properties instantly when they are changed.

## States

States are basically glorified variables. These can be called to get/set their value. (The state acts both as a function, and as an object.)

```lua
local State = Quark.State
local counter = State(0)

print(counter()) -- Prints `0`
counter(10) -- Set counter to `10`

print(counter()) -- Prints 10
```

## Computed States

You can create an auto-updating state by passing in a function with a `use()` parameter. `use()` takes a `State` and will make the state auto-update to the return value of the function.

```lua
local Counter = State(0)
local Text = State(function(use)
    -- call `use` to add a dependency and get its value
    return "Counter is at:" .. use(Counter)
end)

Counter( Counter() + 1 ) -- Increment Counter
print(Text) -- Text will auto update when counter updates
```

## Signals

You can connect to state updates by using a `Signal`.
Whenever the state value changes, it'll call the function from the signal. You can also disconnect when not needed anymore.

```lua
local State = Quark.State
local Signal = Quark.Signal

local counter = State(0)
local update_signal = Signal(counter, function(value)
    print("Counter has updated to:", value)
end)
```

`Signal()` takes a State (or a list of states) and a function.
The first being the state(s) that the function is dependant on. The function's `value` parameter will be from the latest state update.

(If you have multiple dependant states, the `value` will only be the latest one.)

## Using States as Properties

Just set the property of something to a state. It'll update whenever the state updates.

```lua
local status = State("Loading...")

New "TextLabel" {
    -- Default properties hidden for clarity...
    Text = status
}

status("Connected!") -- The label's text automatically changes.
```

## State Lambda Functions

You can use `setLambda(value)` to get a function which sets the value for you. This makes it easier to create update functions for connections. Instead of creating a function just to change a state, you can set the connection to the lambda function returned.

### Example

In the below script, the `Clicked` state will be set to `true` when the button is clicked.

```lua
local Clicked = State(false)

New 'TextButton' {
    -- Default properties hidden for clarity...
    MouseButton1Click = Clicked.setLambda(true)
}
```

It's the equivalent of:

```lua
local Clicked = State(false)

New 'TextButton' {
    -- Default properties hidden for clarity...
    MouseButton1Click = function()
        Clicked(true)
    end
}
```

Since you have reactivity in Code working, what about reactivity in the visual side? For that, visit
